Son of rhythm and blues musician Peter 'Pikey' Butler, j was exposed to a wide range of jazz and blues and would often attend his fathers concerts bla bla and took guitar lessons from bluesman Kevin Wright throughout the 1990s Jack was also exposed to a world of hip hop and electronica drum machines, he formed his first electronic project aged 13, a duo with childhood friend using a roland groovebox and recording to tape. their electronic experimentation started to incorporate live instruments and they were soon joined by friends with saxes and trumpets and started playing a blend of reggae, punk and electronics in their in local pub circuit. Around that time J dropped out of school in 1999 to focus on music full time. in 2001 he was awarded a grant to study at a jazz school run by Trumpet player Eric leLann, studying with bassist Cesarius Alvim and Archie Shepp's drummer Steven Mc Craven. In the next few year he played in many bands in britany ranging from irish folk to grindcore, teaching himself to play bass, drums, trombone and violin. in 2006-2008 he released two self produced CDs of electronic music influenced by jungle and rave culture. In 2009 he moved to Graz Austria where he co-founded the Spektral Media Room and continued to experiment with electronics, contributing to 'Open Artist' Linux distribution as well as releasing a techno album written on a nintendo gameboy, which led him to tour in central and eastern Europe as a solo act. in 2011 he travelled to Istanbul and started playing upright bass with various street bands and jazz combos, and started performing on a daily basis. In 2013 he joined middle eastern band 'Light in Babylon' who were playing large festival stages in the world music circuit. After a switch from string bass to Tuba J. became sought after in the traditional jazz circuit, regularly flying out to tour in Europe with German and US bands, while at home in istanbul h playing turkish 9/8 roma music with the Bergamali family band. in 2019 he appeared on 4 albums released on 3 continents, with Frog & Henry in New Orleans, The Jungle and The Ragtime Nightmare in Berlin, and the Uninvited Jazz band in Istanbul. in 2020 he is sceduled to appear at ballyhop (IE) sevilla jazz (ES) dreden jazz fest (DE) ascona jazz (CH) bude jazz fest (UK)
